
 LiLith v0.6a: http forms scanner/injector
 by <michael@code.ae>

                       "She has come from the shadows of the dreamworld"
                                                      -inkubus sukkubus

 Copyright (c) 2003-2005 Michael Hendrickx <michael@code.ae>
 
 
 Introduction:
 -------------
 
 LiLith is a tool for auditing dynamic websites and web applications, to
 improve their security, so please do not abuse this software and always
 get permission in 'scanning' a target system.
 
 This software works as an ordinary webspider, but rather in storing the
 file, it analyses the HTML output and tries to inject  characters  that
 can have a special meaning for an underlying platform.  Furthermore, it
 tries to tamper web variables - implying to get error messages.
 
 Errors  found in web applications -often- pose a misunderstood security
 hole.  Having your website firewalled and protected with IDS/IPS mostly
 doesn't help much to your application security. As often quoted before;
 security is only as strong as it's weakest link.
 
 While I am  aware that this tool can be used for actions of a malicious
 nature, i discourage any "unethical hacking" using this tool.

 
 How to use:
 -----------
 
 LiLith v0.6a is written in perl 5 and only needs perl with some modules
 that often come with perl by default. If any error arises upon starting
 the program, please install following modules:
 
 - HTTP::Request
 - LWP::UserAgent
 
 Lilith can be run from any posix or Microsoft Windows machine, such  as
 following example (on Linux 2.4.x):
 
   $ perl lilith.pl
 
 When lilith.pl is run without an argument , a short usage menu explains
 how parameters need to be passed.  The most default way of running this
 tool is just with a host argument, such as following example:
 
   $ perl lilith.pl www.server.com
   
 This will start "spidering" the web pages hosted at www.server.com  and
 will inject several characters in places where possible, such as <form>
 tags that will accept one or more <input>'s, or variables in the URL.
 
 Of course, LiLith has many options to "tune" your spidering process and
 to increase verbosity on screen and logging output. The several options
 are explained in the next section "LiLith options".
 
 
 LiLith options
 --------------
 
 This section explains options that can be used with LiLith:
 
   -d <dir>     : Directory where the spidering should start. If you are
                  running a website where a webapplication is located at
		  a certain directory (eg: /ebank/), then this directory
		  can be specified.  *Note*: any links that jump back to 
		  the homepage will not be followed , any external links
		  (hyperlinks going to other websites) will not be saved
		  and audited.  If the target is specified with a direc-
		  tory (eg: "www.target.com/myapp/"), then the directory
		  will be parsed.
		  
   -a <agent>   : User-agent that is displayed with every request.   The
                  default user-agent is set to "LiLith v0.6a", but  this
		  can be changed. The argument for this parameter can be
		  nummeric and get a agent from the list (which is  seen
		  when issuing -a 0) or a alphanummeric string that will
		  be used as the user-agent. This can be handy in audits
		  when set to for example: "Security Scan <date>".   The
		  list of 'normal' browsers is to  ensure  compatibility
		  with browser-specific (eg: IE) applications.
		 
   -u <un:pw>   : If the target web application  is protected with basic
                  authentication then credentials (username and password
		  respectively)   can   be   set   here.   For  example: 
		  -u "michael:secret123".
		  
   -p <proxy>   : If you can only  access the target  web application by
                  going through a proxy, this can be specified here. The
		  format should be in the <ip/hostname:port> format. Eg:
		  -p "proxy.isp.com:8080".
    
   -U <un:pw>   : If the proxy, specified with the -p argument, requires
                  authentication, then it can be set here. It adapts the
		  same format as basic authentication.
 
   -T <delay>   : If defined , then LiLith will wait <delay> seconds  in
                  between sending two requests.  This argument should be
		  of a nummeric nature, eg: "-T 2" will make LiLith wait
		  for two (2) seconds between each request.
		  
   -f <file>    : LiLith will log all requests, responses with  relevant
                  timestamps.  This can come in handy when comparing any
		  IDS logs against  the LiLith logfile.   The  specified 
		  logfile should be a writeable file, and all data  will
		  be stored in a readable ASCII file.
		  
   -c           : Ignore any cookies presented by the host [default off]
                  that are used by the application.  Often these contain
		  data that should be remembered (eg:  language, session
		  identifier).
		  
   -g           : (*g*o on) Do not stop when an error is found.  Default
                  behaviour will skip the current  variable and go on to
		  the next form/page without  trying any more  "poison".
		  This is to avoid that you will get dozens of errors at
		  the same field, all having SQL warnings that '$x' (the 
		  injected poison) is not a valid, for example, integer.
		  To test the application with all "poison values", then
		  enable this option.
   
   
   
 
 F.A.Q:
 ------
 
 Q: I get following error: blablablabala
 A: Please update your perl modules.  This can be done through CPAN:
 
   $ perl -MCPAN -eshell
   cpan> install HTTP::Request
   
 Q: LiLith seems to hang when I scan a website.
 A: It is crawling through links and injection.  Probably if you fire up
    a sniffer you will see the traffic. If however the program does hang
    please let me  know  about it.  Some of the recursive functions were
    written late at night, so there is a possibility. :)

    From Lilith v0.5c and above, the scanning  engine has been made more
    thouroughly, and spiders through many links, injecting a significant
    amount of data, therefor it can appear to be slow and 'hang'.
    
 Q: I think I found a bug, what do I do?
 A: This is more than possible , please contact me using the information
    on top of this README file.

 Q: I have a vulnerable site, but Lilith doesn't recognize it.. 
 A: Please send the concerned target  site , and what triggers it , or a
    dump of the error message.  The  error message  is not recognized by 
    LiLith.

 Q: I didn't see LiLith0.5.. why the jump from 0.4 to 0.6?
 A: 0.5x was a development version, and tested by a very limited set of
    testers.  0.6 is the fully functional result of the 0.5 series.


